In the last two videos, we talked about the use of the optional class in this video, we'll be reviewing
two, three methods that return in operation as we look at searching stream data, the following search
operations, the terminal operations, and are listed in the table below.
So the first method signature is all met, which returns to Berlin, takes a predicate, which is a
wild card law about all elements must match the provided predicate.
It may not evaluate the predicate on all elements, if not necessary, for determining the result.
If the stream is empty, the truth is returned and the predicate is not evaluated.
Short-circuiting is, yes.
Next model is any match which returns to Berlin takes a predicate which is a wildcard lie about the
returns.
Were there any elements of this match that provided predicate may not evaluate the predicate on all
elements, if not necessary, for determining the result if the stream is empty and forces return to
the predicate is not evaluated?
Yes, the Short-circuiting text one is find any which returns an optional of type T, so it returns
an optional describing some element of the stream or an empty optional if the stream is empty.
Yes, the short-circuiting x1 fired first also returns an optional type T, so it returns an option
of describing the first element of the stream or an empty optional.
If the stream is empty, if the stream is normally counted order, then any element may be returned.
Yes.
To Short-circuiting.
The last one and non-match takes a predicate using a wildcard, lower bound as a parameter, the returns
a boolean, the returns with no elements of this dream match that provided predicate may not evaluate
the predicate on all elements, if not necessary, for determining the result.
And if the stream is empty, the true return to the predicate is not evaluated.
Short-circuiting also.
Yes.
All right.
So let's put some of these interactional came back to our streams operation project.
Let's create a new class.
We'll call it stream searches.
So looking at this card, we're using the Chavalit, you Utah, not random class to generate a random
number from zero to 20 in creating an infinite stream, I'm demonstrating using find any on an infinite
stream first using intermediate operation peak to print elements on the stream.
The scrolling on down, we do the same, but find first an option always returned if the optional has
a value I use if present to print the value.
All right.
So let's give this a go by running it.
The results may differ as far as the random integer you get back from, each one will run the signal
to confirm that.
You can say get a different result this time, but you can say that both find any and find first terminated
the infinite stream immediately after one element because both criteria were met.
It found the first element and it found an existing element to return.
Right.
So let's close it down and alter the code slightly.
What I'm going to do is add a limit five intermediate operation to both pipelines before the peak operation
and assorted operation after the peak.
We'll go back up to the anyone first to hear I'm going to add a little bit of a comment as well.
The debt limit said that to five dead after the peak at assorted here got slaughtered.
So that's our infinite stream for any item will do the same.
The first item said before the peak limit.
Don't limit was set out to five after the peak, again, same thing approximately storm sort, dot sorted.
Let's put a comment up here as well to be consistent.
Right, so from that now.
And we can see the airport apparition shown below and again, your numbers are going to be different,
but find any and find first appear to be doing exactly the same thing, but turning the first element
in the pipeline after processing what's right again to confirm we're getting different results there.
In fact, the two methods are effectively the same for non parallel streams.
And I'll be talking about parallel streams in a later video.
However, if you're really interested in the first element, you should always use the find first method.
Java documentation states that the find any method is explicitly non-deterministic.
It's free to select any element in the stream.
So now let's see what happens if there's no elements on the stream.
Going to read some more code to our main method down the bottom.
So here I'm creating an empty list using list of and assigning it to a variable list and then create
to stream pipelines for my list, the first with find any method and a second using find first.
And I've also used the if all else method are the optional returned, which we discussed in a previous
video in this section.
They will a statement either way, but it will print.
Nope.
If no element was returned from the stream.
Let's run.
The Republicans say it wasn't the element Fennell's dreamed up was the first element on stream No.
So, again, not much difference here between these methods with no element is on the straight an empty
option which return.
All right.
So next, let's look at the other three search methods available to you on the stream.
These methods return a boolean as a result.
These methods are all match any match and none match.
OK, we're going to play some code in our mind with.
That's why we're standing up here on line 60, this code starts by creating some test data.
Mr. Stringfellow is four numbers and then proceeding to test three conditions using any match or match.
And none match any match will return true of any elements match the condition, the predicate past all
match return true with all elements, match the condition and not matches basically the opposite of
any match and will return true if no elements match the condition to run the code.
And we can see the output there.
Which is consistent with our test data, you can see to find a line 62 or 63 compensable codine.
So here, creating an empty list and repeating the same tests, I'm just printing the billion value
returned from each terminal operation, we have got some warnings here from intelligibly.
Talking about the fact that it's always going to be false, but we're just doing this for test purposes,
we run this.
The output confirms what the specifications stated about these methods, if no elements are in the stream
pipeline or metal non-match, both return true in any match returns false.
So these results provide us with the confusing axiom that all elements where there are none match the
criteria and no elements when there are none match the criteria.
This video has reviewed the five ways to stream terminal operations to answer questions about the elements
in a stream.
So those questions are, does the stream pipeline contain any elements?
What is the first element on the stream pipeline to any of the elements in the pipeline?
Match my criteria.
Do all of the elements in the pipeline match my criteria and the last question, do none of the elements
in the pipeline match my criteria?
Before I move on to the next video, I want to compare the intermediate method filter with a method
just discussed the filter method, like the URL match any match and non-match methods except a predicate
as a parameter, but it is not a terminal operation.
Instead, it limits a stream to those elements that match the predicate.
So this will go back to code.
That's paste this into our main method.
The bottom here creating a stream as before with a random limiting that to 10 elements.
But then next I limit the data even further by specifying only those elements whose value is greater
than 10 should continue to be processed.
The results are going to be different for each run, but let's run it here.
We lived for 10 to 12 years.
I can say they are running again.
We get a different result the second time, as you can see.
All right, let's now move on to the next video where I'll be reviewing terminal operations that aggregate.
See you in the next video.